NEXT-29107 - B2B Route Restriction (#1016)
shopware/docs: products/extensions/b2b-components/employee-management/concept/api-route-restriction-for-employees.md

# API Route Restriction for Employees

> ## General

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Think we can remove this. Text at this place will be general afterall.

Alternatively, I think "Overview" will be a better fit.

B2B employees and Business Partners share the same customer account.
This can lead to inconsistency for all users of the shared account because they are allowed to change settings and data (both via Storefront and Store-API),
which are not related to the B2B permission system.
We decided to restrict most of the customer account routes by implementing a deny-list pattern to prevent the illegal modification of customer data and settings,
instead of replicating all customer features for employee accounts. We don't consider those features relevant to employee account users.

> ## Deny-List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Denylist
```

I'll comment this once, since you can search-replace it. Reference: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blacklist_(computing)

> The deny-list can be found in the `Resources\config\employee_route_access.xml` config in the employee management folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The denylist can be found in the employee management config to be found at: `Resources\config\employee_route_access.xml`
```

Doesn't disturb the reading flow like that.

> All denied routes are inside the `<denied>` tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All denied routes are inside `<denied>` tags.
```

> The routes inside the `<allowed>` tags are not important for third party developers because they are used for our internal integration tests to remind our developers to extend the list if new Store-API account routes were added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The routes inside the `<allowed>` tags are not important for third party developers, because they are used for internal integration tests to remind developers to extend the list, if new Store-API account routes were added.
```

> ### How is the Deny-List loaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to load the denylist?
```

> The deny-list is loaded with the `load` function in the `Shopware\Commercial\B2b\Domain\RouteAccess\EmployeeRouteAccessLoader` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deny-list is loaded by using the `load` function in the `Shopware\Commercial\B2b\Domain\RouteAccess\EmployeeRouteAccessLoader` class.
```

> The return result is an associative array that includes an allowed and a denied array. You can access them via the index keys `allowed` and `denied`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return result is an associative array that includes arrays of all `allowed` routes, as well as a `denied` one.
```
The second sentence here is redundant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The return result is an associative array that includes arrays of all `allowed` and `denied` routes.
```

Reviewer: I think Benedicts Version is better

> ### Where is the Deny-List loaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Where is the denylist loaded?
```

Reviewer: In general, does it make sense to talk about a denylist, when allow is also an option?

Author: Imo yes because it is not important for externals

The deny-list is loaded in the `Shopware\Commercial\B2b\Subscriber\B2bRouteBlocker` which listens on each controller event and validates the route access before the request reaches the controller.

> In illegal attempts an exception will be thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Illegal attempts cause an exception to be thrown.
```

> ### How to override the Deny-List

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to override the denylist?
```

> You can create your own `employee_route_access.xml` config which includes your denied routes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to create additional `employee_route_access.xml` configs which includes new denied routes.
```

Reviewer: I guess it's better to avoid directly "talking" to the reader.

> After your config is ready, you can decorate the `Shopware\Commercial\B2b\Domain\RouteAccess\EmployeeRouteAccessLoader` which supports our recommended Shopware decoration pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the config is ready, you can decorate the `Shopware\Commercial\B2b\Domain\RouteAccess\EmployeeRouteAccessLoader` which supports our recommended Shopware decoration pattern.
```

> Adapt the solution of the decorated `EmployeeRouteAccessLoader::load` function and return your own config. The `B2bRouteBlocker` will use your config out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adapt the solution of the decorated `EmployeeRouteAccessLoader::load` function and return your own config. The `B2bRouteBlocker` will use config files out of the box.
```

Author: I removed the last sentence because it is a bit misleading

# API Route Restriction for Employees

## Overview

> B2B employees and business partners share the same customer account. This can lead to inconsistency for all users of the shared account because they are allowed to change settings and data (both via Storefront and Store-API), which are not related to the B2B permission system. We decided to restrict most of the customer account routes by implementing a denylist pattern to prevent the illegal modification of customer data and settings, instead of replicating all customer features for employee accounts. We don't consider those features relevant to employee account users.

Reviewer 3: "We don't consider those features relevant to employee account users." -> This is unclear.
